well howdy there internet people its
Ville again so today we're going to talk
about theories and why people sometimes
buy into theories that may seem less
than rational at times we've talked
about a bunch of reasons in various
videos as we've come across them I don't
think we've ever done where we hit all
of the the main components in one video
so we're gonna do that now and I'm
fairly certain that we've never talked
about one of the biggest ones
historically speaking as far as the
effects that it has so we're to do that
today mm-hmm okay so why do people buy
in a t series one of the main reasons is
comfort it is comforting to think that
there is somebody in control that there
is a plan if you don't have that there's
a lot of uncertainty uncertainty is
generally I mean that that makes you
uncomfortable or are we don't like it as
a species it's scary if we don't have a
clear picture of what's going on when
you look historically at times when
these theories take hold there during
periods of uncertainty so even if the
group organization whatever is against
you against your interest it's
comforting to think there's a plan and
it's not just chaos so that's one reason
psychologists often talk about
uniqueness and people when they buy into
these theories they feel unique maybe
that's true maybe it's true they get a
self-esteem boost out of the idea that
they possess some knowledge that is in
common so they're unique that may be
true I I don't know one thing I want to
point out is that people who buy into
these theories they're often portrayed
as not smart that's not true they just
think in a different way
and different parts of their brain may
be more active and not in a bad way
necessarily everybody's mind craves
patterns we look for patterns that's why
we see things and clouds and the swirls
and trees and stuff like that we crave
patterns a lot of these theories are
just based on a name appearing over and
over again in in news cycles or it's
stuff like that it's patterns there's no
actual evidence linking the individual
events it's just a pattern and so much
like the cloud some people can make of
that what they want but that doesn't
mean they aren't smart so here's one of
the big ones to me one of the most
important projection when you look at
these theories that there's a major plot
hole in all of them and that major plot
hole is that the organization has no
opposition there's no bad guy I mean
that's just lazy writing if it's a story
there's no there's nobody there fighting
the idea that they're fighting us that
doesn't make any sense when you look at
these theories the people that make up
this the the group the organization that
is being theorized about these are
people that have money power you're
talking with the most powerful people on
the planet they have control of states
banks the militaries they have power and
they have no opposition
nobody's actively fighting against them
and if you talk to people who believe
these theories these organizations these
groups have had control then pulling the
strings for hundreds if not thousands of
years there's a plot hole they're the
most powerful people on the planet
with no opposition can't get their act
together hundreds thousands of years and
they can't enact their goals that seems
really unlikely it seems if you look at
the behavior of a lot of social groups
that are centered around these theories
you're going to see a lot of infighting
you're going to see a lot of jockeying
for position you're going to see a lot
of deals made behind behind the scenes
to elevate one group over another and
promote one theory over another much the
way these the groups that believe in
these theories see the people in the
theories acting they're kind of
projecting their behavior on that this
is actually backed up by psychological
studies that show many of the people who
believe in these theories have
Machiavellian tendencies and tend to be
very authoritarian so they view society
those up at the top those in power as
authoritarian they probably are I mean
real life they probably are outside of
the theory they probably are very
authoritarian it's kind of proven but
that doesn't mean there's an overarching
pattern that pattern may be created just
because the brain likes to recognize
patterns but here's the interesting
thing and why this is important
historically they have no opposition in
in the theories but every once in a
while some politician arises who tries
to paint themselves and casts themselves
as the opposition to this theory it's a
good move PR wise I mean yeah it's hard
to lose to something that doesn't really
exist you know
so they cast themselves as the
opposition to whatever the conspiracy is
whatever the theory is and it energizes
their base historically the candidates
and politicians and political figures
that have done this our Authority and
strong net look at them all of them
doesn't matter what the theory is that's
what they are so what's interesting
historically speaking is oftentimes
those who possess a theory that their
enemy their opposition those bad people
out there are authoritarians out to rule
the world and out to invade every facet
of their life when somebody casts
themselves as opposition to that they
fall in line and then they end up
supporting the very authoritarian
measures that they would like to pretend
they oppose this backs up what the
shrinks think about it being projection
about it being that those who believe in
these theories are authoritative eenz so
when somebody comes along that kind of
caters to what they believe they're
willing to grant them the exact same
powers that they would have opposed had
it been the people in the theory and I
know right now people are thinking about
the guy and in charge here in the u.s.
right now like yeah man that totally
fits it fits all of them if it's the
German guy if it's the Italian guy if
it's the Russian guy all of them anybody
who has energized their base via a
theory like this you know I've often
said these theories aren't dangerous
they're not they're not a lot of them
are I don't really like thrashing them
too much because they do in doubt and do
say very healthy skepticism of
government they only really become
dangerous when somebody tries to use
those people who believe in it that's
when they become dangerous until then
they can actually be kind of beneficial
because they stimulate public public
discourse and they do induce that
healthy skepticism and that can prevent
a lot of authoritarian things from
taking place but with the recent
documentary I people have asked me to do
a debunking of it I'm not going to I'm
going to send you to Ashley Walker
that's Ashley spelled traditionally al
keer she's a doctor she put out a tweet
a series of tweets debunking it I've
retweeted it you can find it on my
Twitter if you don't want to go find
hers and just you can scroll through it
and it's very easy to discern that the
documentary is not really a documentary
there there's a very plain agenda within
it but it relies on creating that
comfort appealing to uniqueness making
people feel a little smarter than maybe
they are using terminology they don't
understand but presenting it in a way
that seems to make sense even though
there may not be scientific basis for
what's being said and relies heavily on
pattern recognition you know talk about
Falchi a lot but connect him to nothing
but that name it's out there so that's
it so there's a brief overview of why
it's important to monitor them and I
don't necessarily think they need to be
stifled all the time because these
theories aren't necessarily inherently
bad there's a lot of good benefits that
come from we need to be more concerned
about those who are attempting to use
the people who believe in
theories because while they often react
in a in a unified manner and suggest
that those who don't believe in it are
sheep or whatever the term is they want
to use if somebody can harness that
theory they're very easily led anyway
it's just a thought y'all have a good
day